docs: cover frontend port/listener precedence, tie-breaks, and strategy.inheritance (#869)
agentgateway/website: content/docs/kubernetes/main/about/policies/target-merge.md

| Policy section | Valid targets | sectionName | Notes |
| -- | -- | -- | -- |

> | `frontend` | Gateway | Depends on the field; see [Frontend section restrictions](#frontend-restrictions). | Applies to all listeners on the targeted Gateway. A `targetRef` or `targetSelector` can also set `port` to scope the policy to a single listener port on the Gateway. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `frontend` | Gateway | Depends on the field. See [Frontend section restrictions](#frontend-restrictions) for more information. | Applies to all listeners on the targeted Gateway. A `targetRef` or `targetSelector` can also set `port` to scope the policy to a single listener port on the Gateway. |
```

| `traffic` | Gateway, HTTPRoute, GRPCRoute, ListenerSet | Optional | When targeting a Gateway, the `sectionName` selects a specific listener. When targeting an HTTPRoute or GRPCRoute, the `sectionName` selects a specific route rule. |
| `backend` | Gateway, HTTPRoute, GRPCRoute, ListenerSet, Service, {{< reuse "agw-docs/snippets/backend.md" >}} | Optional | When targeting a Service, the `sectionName` selects a specific port. When targeting an {{< reuse "agw-docs/snippets/backend.md" >}}, the `sectionName` selects a specific sub-backend. |

### Frontend section restrictions {#frontend-restrictions}

> `port` (to scope a `frontend` policy to a single listener port on the Gateway) is allowed for every `frontend` field. Whether a `frontend` policy can also set `sectionName` (to scope the policy to a single named listener) depends on which fields the policy sets.

Author: ```suggestion
Use `port` to scope a `frontend` policy to a single listener port on the Gateway, which is allowed for every `frontend` field. Whether a `frontend` policy can also set `sectionName` to scope the policy to a single named listener depends on which fields the policy sets.
```

> Use `port` to scope a `frontend` policy to a single listener port on the Gateway, which is allowed for every `frontend` field. Whether a `frontend` policy can also set `sectionName` to scope the policy to a single named listener depends on which fields the policy sets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `port` field to scope a `frontend` policy to a single listener port on the Gateway. Whether a `frontend` policy can also set a `sectionName` to scope the policy to a single named listener depends on which fields the policy sets.
```

| Fields | `sectionName` |
| -- | -- |
| `accessLog`, `metrics`, `tracing` | Allowed. Selects a single listener. |
| `connect`, `http`, `networkAuthorization`, `proxyProtocol`, `tcp`, `tls` | Not allowed. |

> If a policy sets any not allowed field, the Kubernetes API server rejects `sectionName` on that policy, even if the policy also sets an allowed field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a policy sets any not allowed field, the Kubernetes API server rejects the `sectionName` on that policy.
```

> If a policy sets any field from the second row, the Kubernetes API server rejects `sectionName` on that policy, even if the policy also sets a field from the first row.

Author: ```suggestion
If a policy sets any not allowed field, the Kubernetes API server rejects `sectionName` on that policy, even if the policy also sets an allowed field.
```

Conditional policies are selected first based on their conditions. Only the selected policies participate in merge precedence evaluation.

> Each policy section follows a different precedence order based on the specificity of the target. The more specific the target, the higher the precedence. In the following table, `A < B` means a policy attached at `B` overrides a matching field set by a policy attached at `A`.

Author: ```suggestion
Each policy section follows a different precedence order based on the specificity of the target. The more specific the target, the higher the precedence. In the following table, `<` shows which policies override others.For example, `A < B` means a policy attached at `B` overrides a matching field set by a policy attached at `A`.
```

> Each policy section follows a different precedence order based on the specificity of the target. The more specific the target, the higher the precedence. In the following table, `<` shows which policies override others.For example, `A < B` means a policy attached at `B` overrides a matching field set by a policy attached at `A`.

Author: ```suggestion
Each policy section follows a different precedence order based on the specificity of the target. The more specific the target, the higher the precedence. In the following table, `<` shows which policies override others. For example, `A < B` means a policy attached at `B` overrides a matching field set by a policy attached at `A`.
```

| Section | Precedence order (lowest to highest) |
| -- | -- |
| `frontend` | Gateway < Port < Listener |
| `traffic` | Gateway < Listener < Route < Route rule |
| `backend` | Gateway < Listener < Route (targetRef) < Route rule (targetRef) < Backend (targetRef) < Backend (inline on the backend object) < Route backend ref (inline on the route) |

> For `frontend`, the Listener level applies only to `sectionName`. Only some `frontend` fields allow `sectionName` at all. See [Frontend section restrictions](#frontend-restrictions) for which ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a `frontend` policy, you can only apply the policy at the Listener level when the `frontend` policy field supports setting a `sectionName`. For more information about the fields that support the `sectionName` setting, see [Frontend section restrictions](#frontend-restrictions).
```

> For example, if a Gateway-level policy sets `backend.tcp` and `backend.tls`, and a Backend-level policy sets `backend.tls`, the effective policy uses `tcp` from the Gateway policy and `tls` from the Backend policy.

Reviewer: this example is a little weird here because it does not relate to the frontend policy above

Author: Fixed. Added a transition sentence ("For backend, precedence works the same way but with more levels...") so it's clear the example switches from frontend to backend instead of reading like an unexplained continuation.

> ### When two policies have equal specificity {#ties}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Equal specificity {#ties}
```

If multiple policies with the same specificity set the same field, agentgateway picks one policy's value for that field and silently drops the rest. The selection isn't based on creation time, name, or namespace, so which policy wins isn't predictable and can change between controller restarts. Every affected policy still reports `Accepted` and `Attached` status conditions as `True`, with no condition indicating that a field was dropped.

> This applies to every policy section, but it's easiest to hit with `frontend`. A `frontend` policy has at most three specificity levels: the Gateway, an optional `port`, and an optional listener `sectionName` for the fields where `sectionName` is allowed. Two policies that both target only the Gateway have no way to differentiate their specificity.

Author: ```suggestion
This configuration applies to every policy section, but noticeable with `frontend`. A `frontend` policy has at most three specificity levels: the Gateway, an optional `port`, and an optional listener `sectionName` for the fields where `sectionName` is allowed. Two policies that both target only the Gateway have no way to differentiate their specificity.
```

> This configuration applies to every policy section, but noticeable with `frontend`. A `frontend` policy has at most three specificity levels: the Gateway, an optional `port`, and an optional listener `sectionName` for the fields where `sectionName` is allowed. Two policies that both target only the Gateway have no way to differentiate their specificity.

Reviewer: I am not sure I understand if I can't have two frontend policies targeting the same gateway, even if one targets a port and the other a sectionName for example. of if gateway, port, sectionName do not really matter here and I can't simply attach two frontend policies to the same gateway

Author: Good catch, added a paragraph: "A tie only happens when two policies share both the same specificity and the same field. You can attach multiple policies to the same target as long as each one sets a different field, or attaches at a different specificity level. For example, a `frontend` policy that sets `tls` at the Gateway level and another that sets `accessLog` using a listener `sectionName` don't tie, because they set different fields. A `frontend` policy that sets `tls` at the Gateway level and another that sets `tls` using `port` also don't tie, because `port` is more specific and wins for that field."

> To avoid this, set a given field or section in only one policy per target.

Author: ```suggestion
To avoid this configuration, set a given field or section in only one policy per target.
```

## Merge strategy overrides {#strategy}

> `AgentgatewayPolicy.spec.strategy.inheritance` changes how `traffic` policies merge. It's valid only on policies that set `traffic`. The Kubernetes API server rejects a policy that sets `inheritance` alongside `frontend` or `backend`. Frontend and backend policy merging always follows the specificity order described above and doesn't use `inheritance`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`AgentgatewayPolicy.spec.strategy.inheritance` changes how `traffic` policies merge. It's valid only on policies that set `traffic`. The Kubernetes API server rejects a policy that sets the `inheritance` block alongside the `frontend` or `backend` block. Frontend and backend policy merging always follows the specificity order described above and doesn't use `inheritance`.
```

Reviewer: described above is a little vague. can we make it clearer what applies?

Author: Changed to: 
> `AgentgatewayPolicy.spec.strategy.inheritance` changes how `traffic` policies merge. It's valid only on policies that set `traffic`. The Kubernetes API server rejects a policy that sets the `inheritance` block alongside the `frontend` or `backend` block. Frontend and backend policy merging always follows the `frontend` and `backend` precedence orders in the [Merge precedence](#merging-precedence) table and never uses `inheritance`.

| Value | Behavior |
| -- | -- |

> | `Default` | The default value. Fields from more-specific attachment points, such as routes and route rules, can override fields from less-specific attachment points, such as gateways and listeners. Use this to set a `traffic` default at the Gateway that specific routes can override. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `Default` | The default value. Fields from more-specific attachment points, such as routes and route rules, can override fields from less-specific attachment points, such as gateways and listeners. Use this value to set a `traffic` default at the Gateway that specific routes can override. |
```

> | `Override` | Blocks `traffic` policies at more-specific attachment points from contributing to the effective policy. Use this when a less-specific policy, such as one at the Gateway level, must stay authoritative for everything below it. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `Override` | Blocks `traffic` policies at more-specific attachment points from contributing to the effective policy. Use this value when a less-specific policy, such as one at the Gateway level, must stay authoritative for everything below it. |
```

> | `Override` | Blocks `traffic` policies at more-specific attachment points from contributing to the effective policy. Use this value when a less-specific policy, such as one at the Gateway level, must stay authoritative for everything below it. |

Reviewer: just from reading the description, you would think that override allows you to override, but it is actually not letting you overwrite. just want to make sure that this is correct

Author: I think it's correct. Claude checked it against `crates/agentgateway/src/store/policy.rs`, where Override locks the field once the less-specific policy sets it. But the name is genuinely confusing, so I added a note: "The less-specific policy is the one that overrides, not the one being overridden. A Gateway-level `traffic` policy with `inheritance: Override` locks its fields so that policies attached at more-specific points, such as routes or route rules, can't replace them."

A tie only happens when two policies share both the same specificity and the same field. You can attach multiple policies to the same target as long as each one sets a different field, or attaches at a different specificity level. For example, a `frontend` policy that sets `tls` at the Gateway level and another that sets `accessLog` using a listener `sectionName` don't tie, because they set different fields. A `frontend` policy that sets `tls` at the Gateway level and another that sets `tls` using `port` also don't tie, because `port` is more specific and wins for that field.

A tie is easiest to hit with `frontend`, because a `frontend` policy has at most three specificity levels: the Gateway, an optional `port`, and an optional listener `sectionName` for the fields where `sectionName` is allowed. Two policies that both target only the Gateway have no way to differentiate their specificity.

To avoid a tie, set a given field or section in only one policy per target.

> ## Merge strategy overrides {#strategy}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Merge strategy overrides for traffic policies {#strategy}
```

`AgentgatewayPolicy.spec.strategy.inheritance` changes how `traffic` policies merge. It's valid only on policies that set `traffic`. The Kubernetes API server rejects a policy that sets the `inheritance` block alongside the `frontend` or `backend` block. Frontend and backend policy merging always follows the `frontend` and `backend` precedence orders in the [Merge precedence](#merging-precedence) table and never uses `inheritance`.

> 

Reviewer: The following `inheritance` values are supported for `traffic` policies:

Author: Added

| Value | Behavior |
| -- | -- |
| `Default` | The default value. Fields from more-specific attachment points, such as routes and route rules, can override fields from less-specific attachment points, such as gateways and listeners. Use this value to set a `traffic` default at the Gateway that specific routes can override. |
| `Override` | Blocks `traffic` policies at more-specific attachment points from contributing to the effective policy. Use this value when a less-specific policy, such as one at the Gateway level, must stay authoritative for everything below it. |

> > [!NOTE]

Reviewer: I would add this text to the override section as it only applies there

Author: Done
